What Is Ansible?
The best definition comes, not surprisingly, from the software’s developers: “Ansible is a radically simple IT automation engine that automates cloud provisioning, configuration management, application deployment, intra-service orchestration, and many other IT needs.” 

DevOps Engineer Master's Program
Bridge between software developers and operationsEXPLORE COURSEDevOps Engineer Master's Program
Ansible is an open-source software solution that doesn’t depend on the typical client-server model. Ansible’s designers tout it as the only automation engine that automates everything in the whole application lifecycle as well as the continuous delivery pipeline. Difficult and time-consuming processes get changed into repeatable playbooks, which increases production speed while bringing a much-needed element of simplicity.

Ansible’s name comes from a science fiction story, used to describe an instantaneous hyperspace communications system.

Ansible requires a Linux/Unix host (e.g., Debian, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS, macOS, BSD) as its control machine. Also, Ansible uses the Python programming language, versions 2.7 or 3.5. Ansible runs on several cloud platforms, including: 

Amazon Web Services (AWS)
Atomic
CenturyLink
Cloudscale
CloudStack
DigitalOcean
Dimension Data
Docker
Google Cloud Platform
KVM
Linode
LXC
LXD
Microsoft Azure
OpenStack
OVH
oVirt
Packet
Profitbricks
PubNub
Rackspace
Scaleway
SmartOS
SoftLayer
Univention
VMware
Webfaction
XenServer.

Ansible’s features include:

Simplicity 
You don’t need any unique coding skills to use Ansible’s playbooks. Ansible is easy to set up. Just run the shell script once, and you’re good to go.
Power 
Ansible handles highly complex IT workflows. 
Zero Cost 
Ansible is a free, open-source software solution.
Flexibility 
You can orchestrate the entire application environment no matter where you want to deploy it. Since it has hundreds of modules available, you can customize Ansible to fit your unique needs.
Easy to Use Playbooks 
Most of the playbooks are written in YAML, making them easy to edit and read.
Agentless Installation 
You can set Ansible up in minutes using OpenSSH. You also don’t need to set up agents on remote servers.
Efficiency 
Ansible doesn’t require you to install any extra software, so there are more resources to dedicate to your other applications.